Mark 1:40-45 Jesus Cleanses a Leper

The healing is in the middle of the passage, but the story moves on. The healing is not the main point of this incident.

The only thing we need to know about the leper is that - his condition as a leper, regardless of anything else about him. He was cursed by God, abandoned by men. This leper is a physical reflection of our spiritual condition as sinners without Christ. What you think of yourself and what others think of you does not matter before God. We are all sinners.

v29 before the leper sought Jesus, the news of Jesus came to Him. God always is first. It is a great blessing when all of the lights of the world grow dim to that of Christ.

“I have learned to kiss the wave that throws me against the Rock of Ages” -Charles Spurgeon.

Jesus was moved by pity. The exchange between the leper and Jesus is remarkably short. Too many words = often insincerity. We appreciate this short exchange because it all sincerity, there is no fluff. 

The leper knew Jesus could make him clean, but he was unsure if Jesus would want to "If you will," v40. The difficult part of prayer isn't believing God cannot do what you ask, but rather uncertainty about whether God wills it or not.

We can pray "If you will, Lord, you can". Then we wait with expectation and hope that our gracious Lord will be moved with pity and love and do what is good for us. Far more abundantly than what we ask or think.

Jesus returns the leper's uncertainty with a certain and immediate "I will; be clean" v41. 

2 Kings 5:7
And when the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his clothes and said, “Am I God, to kill and to make alive, that this man sends word to me to cure a man of his leprosy? Only consider, and see how he is seeking a quarrel with me.”

We have the "I will" of the Son of God and His infinite mercy. When the Son of God wills, it cannot NOT be done.

John 15:7
If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you.

Jesus already knew He would heal the leper - so why was he so moved with pity? Jesus is impassible (He cannot suffer in His divine nature) meaning nothing outside of Him can affect Him or His emotions. 

Jesus could have healed the leper without touching him v41, but He touched the leper out of compassion. How shocked the leper would have been, when even his family members would not touch him for years out of a fear of being infected. The leper knew that he was unclean, that whatever and whomever he touched would become unclean. The leper asked to become clean in two ways. He had leprosy, but also was unclean by Mosaic law. This is why he didn't ask to be clean. He wanted to be a healthy Jew, not a healthy gentile. Back in this day, if the unclean touched the clean, the uncleanliness would win.

But Jesus demonstrates that He is far greater than the Mosaic law. Jesus became unclean ceremonially, but the contagious power of Jesus' holiness won against that of the leprosy. Earth has no sorrow that Heaven cannot heal. The kingdom of heaven was at hand.

Jesus tells the former leper to be declared clean by Mosaic standard so that he can rejoin society v44. But then why did Jesus tell the former leper to "say nothing"? Jesus was not afraid to die, He came to die. But Jesus tells the former leper to be secretive as Jesus knew of the appointed time of His death. He needed time to train His disciples.

"Jesus could no longer openly enter a town, but was out in desolate places" v45 where the leper used to be, is where Jesus is now. "But he went out and began to talk freely about it, and to spread the news... and people were coming to him from every quarter." While people saw the leper and came to him with amazement, Jesus became isolated. The two traded places - double imputation. The leper's fate was credited to Jesus, and His life and goodness were transferred, credited to the former leper. This foreshadows what takes place on the cross, where Jesus took our place on the cross to endure the punishment of our sins.

Our union with Christ is the antidote to our leprosy. Our natural response should also be moved by the sacrifice of Christ on the cross, how Christ was moved with pity. Abide in Jesus Christ, who wills that we will be healed of the leprosy of sin. The leprosy of unbelief, faults and flaws, pains and sorrows. Christ touched us with His nail-pierced hands, to declare His accomplished work in His unbreakable love for us. Christ no longer tells us to keep quiet. The time has already come, there is no need for secrecy. We can boast of Christ as much as want, for which Christ has sent us the Spirit of Power and all mercies, until the glorious day of His return.