## October 6th, 2024 | Redeemer Presbyterian Church | Pastor Paul Kim

# Gospel Rule of Life Series
## Give: The Practice of Blessing and Generosity

our culture’s rule of life is the practice of getting and acquiring.
what the gospel brings about: the gospel changes our scarcity mindset to a generosity mindset, enabling us to experience the joy of receiving God’s blessing and giving God’s blessing to others. 

### 1. The Biblical Support and Framework:

what does the bible have to say about blessing?

Creation: God creates and purposes to bless. Gen 1:28
We see here that blessing is God’s empowerment and call to live as He designed. The life of blessing is a life of abundance with God at the center (Eric Kapur). 

fall: curse of sin and death instead of blessing
gen 3:14-24
sin is distance but also disintegration with/from God.

redemption: god promises to bless us even though we deserve to e curse. in the gospel, Jesus takes our curse and gives us His blessing. 
gen 12:1-3

gal 3:13-14, eph 1:3

mission: gods people who are blessed in christ are called to bless others

luke 6:28, 1 peter 3:9

new creation: gods blessing will one day fill the new heaven and earth

the book revelation (7 fold blessing)
1:3, 14:13, 16:15, 19:9, 20:6, 22:7, 22:14

the bible starts with blessing and ends with a “7 fold” blessing. this is how significant blessing is in the Scripture. 

“This is not a game-changer, this is an everything changer” -Scotty Smith

### 2. Understanding “Blessing”

a. Barak/Eulogein - to speak well of, to praise (Psalm 103:1)
b. Shalom - blessing that conveys well-being, peace, prosperity (Numbers 6:24-26)
c. The Old English word “Bletsian” - set apart, act of consecrating someone or something by rite or word (Hebrews 11:20)

What does it mean to "Bless others"?
We bless people anytime we do something that helps them experience life as God intends (ie true, good, and beautiful. When we give blessing to others, we empower and encourage people to turn toward God in Christ who is the fountain and source of all gods blessing.

Dallas Willard: "Blessing is the projection of good into the life of another. It isn't just words. It's the actual putting forth of your will for the good of another person. It always involves God, because when you will the good of another person, you realize only God is capable of bringing that."

Michael Frost: "I've heard that part of the etymology of the term to bless' is to add strength to another's , arm. In this respect, to bless others is to build them up, to fill them with encouragement for them to increase in strength and prosperity.... What does it mean to add strength to another's arm? Anything that relieves their burden in life. Anything that helps them breathe more easily. Anything that lifts their spirit or alleviates their distress. It can be a small thing or large thing."

### 3. Who are we to bless?

- those God puts in your life
- those God puts in your heart
- those who fill your cup and drain your cup
- those who are for you or against you
- those who are dismissive or disrespectful to you
God’s people are called to bless all people everywhere! (Genesis 12:3)

### 4. The practice of Blessing Others:
 
1. bless others with your WORDS.

gospel in (matt 3:17)
gospel out (ephesians 4:29)

Mark Twain: “I can live for two months on a good compliment.” The life that God intends us to live is not one of cursing but of blessing. Who will you bless with your words today? This week?

2. bless others with your TIME.

Luke 10:38-42

“Lord, is this the right thing but in the wrong moment? Help me to be present - to be aware of what’s around me, to consider how you are calling me to receive your blessing and to bless others through me.”

3. bless others with your MONEY. 

gospel in (2 corin 8:9)
gospel out (acts 20:35)

1. stewardship (planned giving: 2 corin 9:7)
2. spontaneous giving (extravagant giving: matthew 26:6-13)
Jon Tyson: “Beware the soul sucking voice of reasonableness…”

### GOSPEL Reflection/Application:
1. What practices make up your current rule of life in this area? What practices would you like to add in, take out, or change?
2. Putting into practice this week : which practice will you focus in on and why?
