# Communal Life - Making the Most Out of AP
## Alpha Project Session #4: Alan Yu

Different levels of community: Alpha Project > Team > Discussion Group

Have FAITH:
- Faithful: being prepared and eager to participate, and keeping your word (do what you say you're going to do!)
  - "One who is faithful in a very little is also faithful in much..." -Luke 16:10a
- Available: having the time, energy, and resources to commit to discipleship and being willing to step outside of your comfort zone 
  - "Your ability will not help if you do not give your availability." -Saji Ijiyemi, "Don't Die Sitting"
- Intentional: Taking the initiative, being proactive not reactive, and not over committing (don't mindlessly commit to anything and everything)
- Teachable: Being humble enough to recognize that you don’t have all the answers, and being open to learning from others and their life experiences. 
  - "Why waste time proving over and over how great you are, when you could be getting better? Why hide deficiencies instead of overcoming them? Why look for friends or partners who will just shore up your self-esteem instead of ones who will also challenge you to grow? And why seek out the tried and true, instead of experiences that will stretch you? The passion for stretching yourself and sticking to it, even (or especially) when it's not going well, is the hallmark of the growth mindset. This is the mindset that allows people to thrive during some of the most challenging times in their lives." -Carol Dweck, "Mindset- The Psychology of Success"
  - "Iron sharpens iron, and one man sharpens another." -Proverbs 27:17
- Heart after God: The Ultimate Goal of Discipleship.

Have faith in God's ultimate promise!

"But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you." -Matthew 6:33

Discussion Questions:
1. Which of part of F.A.I.T.H. do you feel the most confident in?
2. Which part of F.A.I.T.H. do you feel the least confident in?
3. What is one way this Alpha Project you can grow in F.A.I.T.H.?