# Leaders Life - Growth Mindset 2.0
## Alpha Project Session #10: Sea Choi

**Growth Mindset:**
The belief that your abilities or your potential in some domain can change, under the right conditions and right support.

What holds people back from a growth mindset?
**Fixed Mindset:**
You believe your abilities, talents, intelligence or personality traits are given and unchangeable

**Cognitive Dissonance**
Discomfort a person feels when their behavior does not align with their values or beliefs
- Feelings of guilt
- Shame or embarrassment
- Justification or rationalization
- Doing something out of social pressure over true interest

Changing our mindset to a new narrative:
1. Challenges
2. Stress
3. Identify

**I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.** Galatians 2:20

**And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ.** Philippians 1:6

**“Remember to Surrender”**
Redefine the “stress” moments we experience as an opportunity to remember to surrender; to give your entire dependence to Christ. Your life depends on it.

**The Discipline of Staying Down**

Discussion Questions:
1. When’s a time you’ve experienced having a growth mindset?
2. What’s an area of your life you have a “fixed-mindset” attitude toward?
3. How can you look to Jesus to present a new narrative in that area of your life?