# Men's Time - Biblical Manhood
## Alpha Project Session #11: Alan Yu

Biblical manhood is modeled after Jesus Christ. Christians are called to emulate His example, emphasizing love, discipline, and dependence on God.

**"Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong. Let all that you do be done in love."** 1 Corinthians 16:13-14

1. Be Watchful: Like ancient watchmen, men must be alert and disciplined, guarding against the pervasive influence of culture. This includes avoiding sexual immorality and maintaining purity by aligning with God's word.
-  **Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body.** 1 Corinthians 6:19-20
-  **I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I hope; my soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning, more than watchmen for the morning.** Psalm 130:5-6

2. Stand Firm in the Faith: A strong foundation in God's word is crucial. This involves reading, meditating, studying, and memorizing scriptures. Building convictions based on biblical principles helps withstand life's trials, much like the house built on solid ground.
- **“Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it.”** Matthew 7:24-27

3. Act Like Men: Biblical manhood involves maturity, strength, and courage, rooted in reliance on God. Examples from the Bible include Moses, Joshua, and David, who all depended on God despite their flaws. Respecting women and treating them with dignity and honor is also essential.
-  **Do not rebuke an older man but encourage him as you would a father, younger men as brothers, older women as mothers, younger women as sisters, in all purity.** 1 Timothy 5:1-2
-  **Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised.** Proverbs 31:30

4. Do Everything in Love: True masculinity is marked by selfless love. This involves putting others' needs ahead of one's own and following Jesus' example of servant leadership. Love should be radical, truthful, and transformative, even extending to enemies.
- **Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, by taking the form of a servant,being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross.** Philippians 2:3-8
-  **“You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’ But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? 48 You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.** Matthew 5:43-48
-  **Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love.** Ephesians 4:15-16

The concept of biblical manhood is taught and learned through imitation, as Paul suggests. **"Be imitators of me, as I am of Christ."** 1 Corinthians 11:1. As men we are encouraged to live lives that reflect Jesus, serving as role models for others to follow.

**Reflection Questions:**
- What is your image of a “man”?
- Where do you need to be watchful?
- Where do you need to build conviction?
- Are you a biblical man (adult)? Why? How can you get there?