# Devotional Life - How to Sabbath
## Alpha Project Session #14: Noah Lee

“So then, there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God, for whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God did from his.”
Hebrews 4:9-10

1. What is Sabbath?
   A holy day to cease from work; to rest

   8 “Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. 9 Six days you shall labor, and do all your work, 10 but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates. 11 For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy. **Exodus 20:8-11**

    When God formed the world in **Creation**:

    1 Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. 2 And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. 3 So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. **Genesis 2:1-3**

    and it was **GOOD**.

    but after sin entered the world in the **fall**, we were no longer at peace with God.

    20 But the wicked are like the tossing sea;
    for it cannot be quiet,
    and its waters toss up mire and dirt.
    21 There is no peace,” says my God, “for the wicked.” **Isaiah 57:20-21**

2. Why do we Sabbath?

    The word sabbath is from the Greek word sabbaton. Sabbaton itself traces to the Hebrew word shabbāth, meaning “rest.”

    This Greek word changes from being a verb to being a noun from **creation** to **fall**.

    24 So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith. 25 But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian, 26 for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. **Galations 3:24-26**

    We hear phrases like:
    - "Fake it 'til you make it"
    - "I'll sleep when I'm dead"

    But as Christians we have faith and rest in the Gospel because of **redemption**.
  
    28 Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 29 Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. 30 For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” **Matthew 11:28-30**

    And our theme verse for Alpha Project speaks to the result of being in **New Creation**:

    1 Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, 2 looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is <u>seated</u> at the right hand of the throne of God. **Hebrews 12:1-2**

3. How do we Sabbath?

    "Without knowledge of self, there is no knowledge of god. our wisdom, insofar as it ought to be deemed true and solid wisdom, consists almost entirely of two parts: the knowledge of god and of ourselves. but as these are connected by many ties, it is not easy to determine which of the two precedes and gives birth to the other." John Calvin

    [Spiritual Pathways Test](files/14.1%20-%20spiritual-pathways-with-numbers-1-1.pdf)

    1. Rest & Refresh
    2. Remember
    3. Rejoice