# Missional Life - Cultural Apologetics 101
## Alpha Project Session #16: Sam Collins

Why Apologetics?
Commending and Defending the faith. Called to be ready to give an answer. Need to know when we are living, to give the right answer.

The Western Church's context has shifted from pre-Christian, Christendom, and post-Christian.

F.I.S.H. -> Apathy = INSPIRE

A Working Definition of Cultural Apologetics:
**“Cultural Apologetics, then, helps unbelievers want the gospel to be true even before they understand the good news. We offer the beauty of the lordship of Christ as opposed to the ugliness of the lordship of the principalities and powers (Eph. 6:12)"** Collin Hansen
“The work of establishing the Christian voice, conscience, and imagination within a culture so that Christianity is seen as true and satisfying.” Paul Gould

Biblical Examples:
- Acts 17
- Genesis 1-3
- Proverbs
- Sermon on the Mount

Historical Examples:
- Augustine
- Blaise Pascal
- CS Lewis

Goal of Cultural Apologetics: Renewal
- Mind
- Belief
- Worship

What are the Stories being Told? Questions being asked/assumed?
- The Romance Story
- The Achievement Story

Is it beautiful? Is it true? Use vivid imagery - most vivid is your story

4 Typical Areas we should be prepared to “Argue”
1. Why is the World Here?
2. Did it all happen by Accident?
3. What do good and evil mean?
4. Who was Jesus?

[If Jesus' Resurrection Were A Hoax - The Babylon Bee](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=23UNLLbOS3w)

Imagine no religion...
Hasn't Science disproved Christianity? Or maybe science rescued us from Christianity?