# Missional Life - Heart for the Nations
## Alpha Project Session #22: Pastor Joel Yoon

**Why do we do missions? Where does it tell us in the Bible to do missions?**

**Genesis 12:1-3**
*1 Now the Lord said to Abram, “Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. 2 And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. 3 I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.”*

The Bible doesn't just have a few verses about missions, the Bible **itself** is about missions. And the Bible itself is **missional**. God is on a **mission** to redeem the **world** through the **church** by the gospel of Jesus Christ.

### We used to walk with God and it was **good**

**Genesis 1-2**
<u>Gen. 1:31</u> *And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day.*
<u>Gen. 3:8a</u> *And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day*

## The <u>Need</u> and <u>Grace</u> of Redemption

| **The Need for Redemption** | **The Grace of Redemption** |
| -----  | -----  |
| Gen. 3:7 Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths. | Gen 3:15 l will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring* and her offspring; he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel." |
| Gen. 3:8 And they heard the sound of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God among the trees of the garden. | Gen 3:20 The man called his wife's nameEve, because she was the mother of all living. 21 And the LORD God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skins and clothed them. |
| Gen. 3:12 The man said, "The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate." |  |
| Gen. 4:8 Cain spoke to Abel his brother. And when they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother Abel and killed him. 9 Then the LORD said to Cain, "Where is Abel your brother?" He said, "I do not know; am I my brother's keeper?" | Gen 4:15 Then the LORD said to him, "Not so! If anyone kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold." And the LORD put a mark on Cain, lest any who found him should attack him. |
| Gen. 6:5 The LORD saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. | Gen 9:11 l establish my covenant with you, that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood, and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth. |
| Gen. 6:12 And God saw the earth, and behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way on the earth. | Gen. 9:16 When the bow is in the clouds, I will see it and remember ethe everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth." |
| Gen. 9:20 Noah began to be a man of the soil, and he planted a vineyard. 21 He drank of the wine and became drunk and lay uncovered in his tent. |  |
| Gen. 11:4 Then they said, "Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower with its top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth." | Gen 11:... **Where is the *grace???*** |

## Missions is the Grace

<u>Gen. 12:1-3</u> 1 Now the LORD said to Abram, “Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. 2 And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. 3 I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.”

- The **reason** for missions is **blessings**
- The **hope** for missions is **God**
- The **means** for missions is **our names**

**The Rest of the Old Testament, Jesus & The Church**

You are now a **part** and the **means** of this story of **redemption**.

**Heaven**
**Rev. 7:9-12** 9 After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands, 10 and crying out with a loud voice, “Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb!” 11 And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God, 12 saying, “Amen! Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever! Amen.”

## Big Idea

**Missions is not *extra***

"The Gospel is the truth, and therefore it is true for all men. It is the unveiling of the face of Him who  makes all things, from whom every man comes, and to whom every man goes. It is the revealing of the meaning of human history, of the origin and destiny of mankind. Jesus is not only my Savior, He is the Lord of all things, the cause and cornerstone of the universe. If I believe that, then to bear witness to that is the very stuff of existence. If I think I can keep it to myself then I do not in any real sense believe it. Foreign missions are not an extra; they are the acid test of whether or not the Church believes the Gospel." - Lesslie Newbigin

**Missions is *the endgame***

"All true vitality in the work of missions depends in the last analysis upon the secret springs of supernatural life which they know who give time to communion with God. All true witness to Christ is the overflowing of a reality too great to be contained. It has its source in a life of adoration and intercession... Any real power that God may give them will come through those secret channels which are in this age, as in every age, the true means of blessing for the world." - Lesslie Newbigin