# Leaders Life - Vision/Values of CO
## Alpha Project Session #24: Sam Collins

## Vision
**Introduce people to Jesus** & **See lives transformed**
- See a Movement
- Want to see as many people as possible know Jesus, and we want to empower you to reach them

## Mission
**Glorifying God**
- the ultimate aim of God and all his creation is to bring attention to God or to glorify him forever.
**By Building Christ-Centered Leaders**
- changed by the gospel
- committed to grow in community
- compelled to go and make disciples
**On the College Campus**
- the college campus is one of the most strategic
mission fields
**For The Renewal of San Diego and Beyond**
- the Goal of CO is that we would influence the world for christ.
- we desire that graduates of CO would provide Kingdom Leadership

35 And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction. 36 When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. 37 Then he said to his disciples, “The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few; 38 therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.” **Matthew 9:35-38**

42 And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers. 43 And awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. 44 And all who believed were together and had all things in common. 45 And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need. 46 And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, 47 praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved. **Acts 2:42-47**

## Values

Christ-Centered
- All of Life, All for Christ

Team Ministry
- We Before Me

Leadership Development
- From Lost to Leaders

Healthy Rhythms
- Healthy Things Grow

Mobilization of Students
- Campus -> Church -> City

How? Strategy
- Engage: Befriend -> Belong -> Believe
- Evangelize: the hook is JESUS!
- Establish: Vertical & Horizontal
- Equip: Saints for the Work of Ministry
- Export: Power of Multiplication

8 So, being affectionately desirous of you, we were ready to share with you not only the gospel of God but also our own selves, because you had become very dear to us.

9 For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil: we worked night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you, while we proclaimed to you the gospel of God.
**1 Thessalonians 2:8-9**

1 You then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus, 2 and what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses entrust to faithful men, who will be able to teach others also.
**2 Timothy 2:1-2**

**Dream Big, Start Small, Go Deep**
1. Redeemer 10
2. Be faithful in our day to day lives
3. Trust the investment will multiply because God promises

**The Christ-Centered Leader in YOU**
1. How have you been changed by the Gospel?
2. What commitments are you making to grow?
3. Is my heart compelled to GO and make disciples?