# All of Life Rally - Hebrews 11/12
## Alpha Project Session #25: Ella Lentz

1 Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, 2 looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. **Hebrews 12:1-2**

How to make the most out of what you learned at Alpha Project:
1. **Look <u>BACK</u>**
    
    It's impossible to know how far you have come if you don't know where you started.

    for we walk by faith, not by sight.
    2 Corinthians 5:7

    We get the privilege to look back and see all that God has done. And in his goodness and mercy, not only can we do that for our own lives and piece together his works... BUT we can also look to this “great cloud of witnesses” who have run the race before us. 

    Hall of Faith:
    Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Sarah, Jacob, Moses, Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, Samuel

    Each one of these “heroes of the faith” has helped to pave the way for us and can remind us of the goodness and faithfulness of our gracious God. They all play a part in the greater mosaic of God’s design! And it can encourage us to look back on our own lives and dig out the ways that God has been moving in our lives.

    Sit down and reflect so you can <u>look back</u> on the love and mercy that He has for you.

2. **Look <u>UP</u>**

    We are called to run with **ENDURANCE**!
    
    ...let us run with <u>endurance</u> the race that is set before us, 2 looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him <u>endured</u> the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. **Hebrews 12:1b-2**
    
    Base Pace: easy to sustain for a long time<br>
    Push Pace: challenging BUT do-able<br>
    All-Out Pace: 30-40 seconds MAX

    The Christian Life:
    - will be a long run! 
    - will require BOTH stamina and endurance!
  
    This run is a Push Pace. It’s not going to be a walk in the park (“indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted” 2 Tim. 3:12) and it’s not going to be over in 30-60 seconds (“but concerning that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only” Matt. 24:36). It could be tomorrow - it could be in a 100 years, but no one knows. So we should settle into a challenging but do-able pace. 

    Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. **John 6:35**

    Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. **Hebrews 4:14**

    We can draw near because He has been brought low. - Pastor Paul Kim (Redeemer Presbyterian Church)

    He suffered and was tortured as the perfect sacrifice to make you and me right before God. This is his perfect love for you and for me.

    The goodness of Jesus is that he knows. The good news of the Gospel is that, while Jesus was perfect and he did that which we could not do,

    because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. **Romans 10:9**

     ALL that he asks of us is faith in him. And it’s not a blind faith that we trust him because he’s perfect so he cannot understand the things we are struggling with - but in EVERY way, he has been tempted. Whatever it is you are struggling with: loss, grief, temptation, pride, anger…etc; Jesus knows. Jesus cares. He took that to the cross for you. And this is how the gospel is beautiful! That even before we could clean up our act or become right before him - he died! 

    but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. **Romans 5:8**     

3. **Look <u>FORWARD</u>**

    Looking ahead to what is coming allows you to:
   - anticipate the challenges
   - be excited by the potential

    And all these, though commended through their faith, did not receive what was promised, 40 since God had provided something better for us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect. **Hebrews 11:39-40**

    “The closing image isn’t of a cloud or a harp or Raphael and his floating cupids; it’s of a city. A city with walls and gates and streets and dwellings and a river and a forest and a culture. As I said earlier, it’s draped in language straight out of Genesis.

    ‘A new heaven and a new earth.’<br>
    ‘The tree of life.’<br>
    ‘No longer will there be any curse.’<br>
    ‘They will reign.’<br>
    So it’s not just a city…it’s a Garden city.

    This is what’s waiting for us. Not an eternal vacation in the sky, but an eternity of working and resting in this world completely remade from top to bottom by the Creator, ruling over the earth, side by side with Jesus himself, forever. This is the hope of Jesus.” **John Mark Comer, Garden City**

    “So, ‘anticipation’ is ‘getting ready for what God has told you is coming.’
    
    Noah began building the ark, by faith,“in anticipation of a flood when warned about things not yet seen, in holy fear to save his family.” - Hebrews 11:7

    Nehemiah discovered this “when Judah’s enemies schemed to stop him leading the rebuilding of Jerusalem’s city walls and gates” - Nehemiah 6:3...

    <u>Anticipation will attract opposition, but remember, anticipation is an expression of faith</u>, in the face of the enemy who’s trying to alter God’s plan for your life. So, anticipation must be a willingness to take surprisingly bold risks by faith, when the going gets tough, and you may feel like giving up. But it’s here you need to persevere. Because when anticipation has been lost, God’s plan is to restore it...

    So, don’t give up! Allow the Holy Spirit to restore your anticipation for the fulfillment of God’s promises and the dreams He has placed in your heart for your destiny, your family, and your ministry...

    To <u>anticipate is to position yourself for God’s purpose</u>. Anticipation is more than expectation, it's faith in motion. Therefore, your anticipation,and acts of obedience, led and empowered by the Holy Spirit, will bring breakthrough when you take possession of God’s promise by faith.”

As we cling to the promises of God, we can position ourselves to live into God’s purpose!

  1. Walk confidently.
      You yourself are a mosaic!
  2. Walk humbly.
      “This is gospel-humility, blessed self- forgetfulness. Not thinking less of myself as in modern cultures, or less of myself as in traditional cultures. Simply thinking of myself less.” -Tim Keller
      
      He has told you, O man, what is good; and what does the Lord require of you but to do justice, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God? **Micah 6:8**

  3. Fight the good fight.
 
      7 I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. 8 Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day, and not only to me but also to all who have loved his appearing. **2 Timothy 4:7-8**

      5 Trust in the Lord with all your heart,
      and do not lean on your own understanding.
      6 In all your ways acknowledge him,
      and he will make straight your paths.
      **Proverbs 3:5-6**

Discussion Q’s:
1. What is one takeaway from AP that you can carry into summer?
2. Who is one person you want to share your AP experience with?