# Devotional Life - OIJA Hebrews 11:1-3
## Alpha Project Session #2: Timothy Noritake

OIJA consists of the following:<br>
>**Observation**: when/where(context)? who? what?<br>
**Interpretation**: why? how does God use this?<br>
**Jesus**: how does this relate back to Jesus?<br>
**Application**: own and repent, look to Jesus, ask the Holy Spirit to help change us, transformation<br>

**Resources**: 
- Bible Project
- Enduring Word
- Blue Letter Bible

Why is it (OIJA) worth it?
- leads to discovery, understanding, growth
- seeing our growth through changes in/maturing of perspective
- there is **joy** to be found in reading the word!<br>
<br>

**Hebrews 11:1-3**
>1 Now faith is confidence in what we hope for and assurance about what we do not see. 2 This is what the ancients were commended for. 3 By faith we understand that the universe was formed at God’s command, so that what is seen was not made out of what was visible.

**Observation**: when/where(context)? who? what?<br>
>when/where: Hebrews is a letter to Jewish Christians. <br>
who (pronouns present): it, people, their (v2); we, the universe, God (v3)<br>
what: faith is an unseen conviction in the assurance of hope given in the old testament (v1-2) our faith is in the God who created everything out of nothing with just His word (v3)

**Interpretation**: why? how does God use this?<br>
>Our faith in God allows us to understand His sovereignty and assures our hope in the things unseen and unmade. All of the promises were invisible until Jesus came.

**Jesus**: how does this relate back to Jesus?<br>
>Chapter 11 serves to define Jesus's faith to set Him up as the founder and perfector of our faith, as spoken in Chapter 12. Jesus is the bridge that connects the people in v2 to us, as God's good testimony came through the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus can replace the word "faith" in v1, as our faith is new in Jesus after the new testament.

**Application**: own and repent, look to Jesus, ask the Holy Spirit to help change us, transformation<br>
>Lord sometimes we do not have hope in your promises, and worry about the things unseen. We look to Jesus who is our bridge, our savior who has given us understanding and new life in Him. Holy Spirit come form my soul how You will it, as my life is not made by things that are visible (achievements or outward success) but in You.

Wrapping up: **Psalm 19:7-11**
>7 The law of the Lord is perfect,
    refreshing the soul.
The statutes of the Lord are trustworthy,
    making wise the simple.
8 The precepts of the Lord are right,
    giving joy to the heart.
The commands of the Lord are radiant,
    giving light to the eyes.
9 The fear of the Lord is pure,
    enduring forever.
The decrees of the Lord are firm,
    and all of them are righteous.
10 They are more precious than gold,
    than much pure gold;
they are sweeter than honey,
    than honey from the honeycomb.
11 By them your servant is warned;
    in keeping them there is great reward.