# Devotional Life - G.O.S.P.E.L. Rule of Life
## Alpha Project Session #7: Sam Collins

What is a Rule of Life?

“A rule of life is a schedule and set of practices and relational rhythms that help us create space in our busy world for us to be with Jesus, become like Jesus, and do what Jesus did-to live to the “full” (John 10:10) in his kingdom, and in alignment with our deepest passions and priorities.” - John Mark Comer

**8 You have said, “Seek my face.” My heart says to you, “Your face, Lord, do I seek.” 9 Hide not your face from me.** Psalm 27:8-9

The command (seek) is addressed to more than one person.

“There is nothing in us or done by us, at any stage of our earthly development, because of which we are acceptable to God. We must always be accepted for Christ’s sake, or we cannot ever be accepted at all. This is not true of us only when we believe. It is just as true after we have believed. It will continue to be true as long as we live. Our need of Christ does not cease with our believing, nor does the nature of our relation to him or to God through him ever altar, no matter what our attainments in Christian graces or our achievements may be. It is always on his “blood and righteousness” alone that we can rest.” -Benjamin Warfield

**13 I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living! 14 Wait for the Lord; be strong, and let your heart take courage; wait for the Lord** Psalm 27:13-14

1. Give: the practice of blessing and generosity

    “to bless” = “to add strength to anothers arm”<br>
    Bless Others with Your: Words, Time, and Money!
2. Open: The Practice of Hospitality and Friendship
3. Sabbath: The Practice of Rest and Enjoyment
4. Pray: The Practice of Prayer and Abiding
5. Engage: The Practice of engaging in God's Mission
6. Listen: The Practice of Being Formed and Shaped by God's Word<br>
    Lectio Divina = Divine Reading<br>
        1. Reading<br>
        2. Meditation<br>
        3. Invitation<br>
        4. Surrender
   