# Life Skills - The Grace of Lament
## Alpha Project Session #20: Sea Choi

What is lament?
- a loud cry, a howl, passionate expression of grief
- Biblical lament is more than just sorrow or walking through the stages of grief.

Lament is a prayer in pain that leads to trust.
Lament is rooted in what we believe.

“it is precisely out of trust that God is sovereign that the psalmist repeatedly brings laments and petitions to the lord... if the psalmist had already decided the verdict -that god is indeed unfaithful- they would not continue to offer their complaint.”

Biblical Lament changes:
Brokenness -> God's Mercy
Pain -> Promise
Heartbreak -> Hope

What does lament provide?
1. Language for loss
   Provides Biblical Vocabulary and serves as model for talking to God about our pain
2. Solution for silence
   Lament opens the door for you to be able to talk to God again, even if it’s messy. **Prayerlessness is deadly.**
3. Category for complaints
   Complaining to God is not necessarily sinful.
4. Framework for our feelings
    Validates pain while providing framework to avoid self-centeredness
5. Process our pain
    More than just the stages of grief
6. Ways to Worship
   Grief-filled prayers of pain while seeking God are among the deepest expressions of God-centered worship.

If we do not learn to lament brokenness in our lives, we
miss out on another opportunity to worship God.

How to Lament (as seen in the Psalms)

1. **Turn** to God in your disappointments
   - To pray in pain is an act of faith
   - Better than silence
    **Psalm 77:1-3**
    1 I cry aloud to God,
    aloud to God, and he will hear me.
    2 In the day of my trouble I seek the Lord;
    in the night my hand is stretched out without wearying;
    my soul refuses to be comforted.
    3 When I remember God, I moan;
    when I meditate, my spirit faints.
    
2. Brint a **Complain**
    - Not self-centered rage at God
    - Not anger or denial
      - Anger: bitterness
      - Denial: projecting
    - Tell God His promises back
    **Psalm 13:1-3**
    How long, O Lord? Will you forget me forever?
    How long will you hide your face from me?
    2 How long must I take counsel in my soul
    and have sorrow in my heart all the day?
    How long shall my enemy be exalted over me?
    3 Consider and answer me, O Lord my God;
    light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death,

“A lament honestly and specifically names a
situation or circumstance that is painful, wrong, or
unjust – in other words, a circumstance that does
not align with God’s character and therefore does
not make sense within God’s kingdom.” Stacey Gleddiesmith

Guidelines for godly complaint:
   1. COME HUMBLE Come with your pain, not your pride.
   2. BE HONEST Remember you have a Savior that understands.
   3. PRAY THE BIBLE We need the boundaries of biblical language.
   4. DON’T JUST COMPLAIN You must keep moving.
“God I know you are not _______, but it feels like you are today.”

3. **Ask** Boldly
- Begin moving from the “why” questions to the “who” you are talking to.

    **Psalm 22:1-5**
    1 My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
    Why are you so far from saving me, from the words of my groaning?
    2 O my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer,
    and by night, but I find no rest.
    3 Yet you are holy,
    enthroned on the praises of Israel.
    4 In you our fathers trusted;
    they trusted, and you delivered them.
    5 To you they cried and were rescued;
    in you they trusted and were not put to shame.
“Yet reminds us that sorrow doesn’t have to yield before we ask God for help. It invites us to pray boldly even when we are bruised badly.”

4. Choose to **Trust**
- Trust is believing what you know to be true even though the facts of suffering might call it into question.

**Psalm 13:5-6**
5 But I have trusted in your steadfast love;
    my heart shall rejoice in your salvation.
6 I will sing to the Lord,
    because he has dealt bountifully with me.

We rejoice in the promises of God; promises
don’t end the pain, but they give it purpose.

- God promises to meet your needs: Luke 12:22-31
- God promises to hear your prayers: Matthew 7:7-11
- God promises to never leave nor forsake you: Hebrews 13:5
- God promises to forgive all your sins if you trust in Jesus: Ephesians 1:7
- God promises to strengthen you and dwell with you by his Holy Spirit: Ephesians 3:16
- God promises to bring you into glory: Colossians 3:4

**Revelation 21:4-7**
4 He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.”

5 And he who was seated on the throne said, “Behold, I am making all things new.” Also he said, “Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true.” 6 And he said to me, “It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment. 7 The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God and he will be my son.